there shall come forth a rod from the
stem of Jesse and a branch shall grow
out of his roots the Spirit of the Lord
shall rest upon him the spirit of wisdom
and understanding the spirit of counsel
and might the spirit of knowledge and of
the fear of the Lord his delight is in
the fear of the Lord and he shall not
judge by the sight of his eyes nor
decide by the hearing of his ears but
with righteousness he shall judge the
poor and decide with equity for the meek
of the earth he shall strike the earth
with the rod of his mouth and with the
breath of his lips he shall slay the
wicked righteousness shall be the belt
of his loins and faithfulness the belt
of his waist
the wolf also shall dwell with the lamb
the leopard shall lie down with the
young goat the calf and the young lion
and the fatling together and a little
child shall lead them the cow and the
bear shall graze their young ones shall
lie down together and the lion shall eat
straw like the Ox the nursing child
shall play by the Cobras old and the
weaned child shall put his hand in the
Vipers den they shall not hurt nor
destroy in all my holy mountain for the
earth shall be full of the knowledge of
the Lord as the waters cover the sea and
in that day there shall be a root of
Jesse who shall stand as a banner to the
people for the Gentiles shall seek Him
and his resting place shall be glorious
it shall come to pass in that day that
the Lord shall set his hand again the
second time to recover the remnant of
his people who are left from Assyria and
Egypt from pathos and
from Elam and Shinar from hay meth and
the islands of the sea he will set up a
banner for the nations and will assemble
the outcasts of Israel and gathered
together the dispersed of Judah from the
four corners of the earth also the envy
of Ephraim shall depart and the
adversaries of Judah shall be cut off
Ephraim shall not envy Judah and Judah
shall not harass Ephraim but they shall
fly down upon the shoulder of the
Philistines toward the west together
they shall plunder the people of the
east they shall lay their hand on Edom
and Moab and the people of Ammon shall
obey them the Lord will utterly destroy
the tongue of the Sea of Egypt with his
mighty wind he will shake his fist over
the river and strike it in the seven
streams and make men cross over dry-shod
there will be a highway for the remnant
of his people who will be left from
Assyria as it was for Israel in the day
that he came up from a land of Egypt